# Allometric scaling of hyporheic respiration across basins in the Pacific Northwest USA

This repository holds data and scripts used for the analyses presented in a manuscript on allometric scaling of hyporheic aerobic respiration across the Yakima and Willamette river basins, currently submitted to Limnology and Oceanography Letters. 

<b>Abstract:</b> Hyporheic zones regulate biogeochemical processes in streams and rivers, but high spatiotemporal heterogeneity makes it difficult to predict how these processes scale from individual reaches to river basins. Recent work applying allometric scaling (i.e., power-law relationships between size and function) to river networks provides a new paradigm to develop a scalable understanding of hyporheic biogeochemical processes. We used reach-scale hyporheic aerobic respiration estimates to explore allometric scaling patterns across two basins, and related these patterns to watershed characteristics. We found consistent scaling behaviors at lowest and highest exchange flux (HEF) quantiles, and consistent but HEF-dependent relationships to watershed elevation, precipitation, and land-cover. Our results also suggest variability of hyporheic respiration allometry for middle exchange flux quantiles, and in relation to land-cover. Our findings provide initial evidence that allometric scaling may be useful for predicting hyporheic biogeochemical dynamics across watersheds from reach to basin scales.

Francisco Guerrero wrote most of the initial data analysis code.
